---
layout: single
title:  "From 1 to 1000+"
date:   2016-07-30
categories: blog
---


After the famous reading < zero to one > actually everybody is thinking about make something that have never existed, so they can make a lot of money from that.

In technology, everyone want to be an enterpriser so they can be the next Zuckerberg. In fact less and less person really care about the technic powers the Facebook empire. The thought the idea of “ connect the world “ is everything of Facebook’s success.

During a lot of discussions with people who want to start their owe business, the word which been mentioned most time is “inch point and pain point“. Seems like it is the key to success, if your business can handle one or two “ pain point “ that influence people’s life is should have a big opportunity. But is that right？ Absolutely No.

## If you already have 1, how to make 1000.

In fact, things gonna be different when quantity change. For example, Alibaba nowadays is an important part of Chinese modern life. It inited with a simple idea, bring market to internet. But after decade’s growth. Things are not that simple. They may handle the biggest net traffic around the world during their shopping festival. They have the best technology to make this come true.

Can you say is the initial ideal makes Alibaba’s success? If the just want to be an good start up, that’s ok. But today their success should rely on the technology behind.

## Try to do something different, but different is not everything.

“ you can not be different, if you do things just because it it different.”

I have mate a lot of startups they have their ambitions to change the market. they have an idea that nobody has tried. But in most cases their idea is also useless. they try to do something different to make money. But the really successor do not do strange things.

So finally I do not mean that zero to one is not a good concept. Just before zero to one. We should think more about how to do things better. Make an existing thing better is not meaning less. Because may be it is the next thing that will change the world.
