---
layout: single
title:  "introduction of git"
date:   2018-11-09 15:28:48 +0800
categories: blog
---


introduction of git

1. local version control system.
when you do `git init`, you will creat a `.git/` directory in your current working directory. this is git's local version control data base. So, actually all your `git commit` and `git checkout` only interactive with this local database. 

for instance, if you have one `readme.md` file in your working dir. you just need to do `git add readme.md` and `git commit -m "add readme"` this file will be tracked by git, and current status of file will be remember by git and tag with one 32 bits hash commit id. 

2. git branch
With git, it's super easy to create branch. what you need to do is just `git checkout -b new_branch` then you will create and switch to a new branch named with "new branch". all files are based on your previous working branch when you run this command. 

you can do developing on developing branch and do `git merge new_branch master` to merge changes back to master.


3. git remote repo
like svn, git also can have a remote server serve as a code storage. but the concept is different.  you are not checking out from remote repo. you are literally ~clone~ the remote repo to your local. when you run `git clone remot_url` it will do 1:1 copy of the remote repo, include all branches and history. so you will have exactly same thing as remote. 

after clone your git client automatic mark source repo as your origin remote. so when you working one this local copy. you can do pull to let it follow up with remote changes. and also you can do `git push` to push your local change to remote.  one thing to be clear is here `git pull` and `git push` only works between your local git database and remote git database. that means if you have some local change about file you need to commit to local database, then you can push. otherwise, git will show you nothing to push. 

